---
layout: irclog
server: irc.freenode.net
channel: rundeck
---

#### 14:29:15 Kzim
 Hi
#### 16:24:41 Alex-SF
 hi kho 
#### 16:24:43 Alex-SF
 hi KZim
#### 16:25:18 DinMamma
 Hallo.
#### 16:25:21 DinMamma
 Hello*
#### 16:26:09 DinMamma
 Is there any way(hackish or not) to get rundeck to execute tasks on a remote server that would survice a network issue etc?
#### 16:26:42 DinMamma
 If I issue a "yes" on a server, and then restart my rundeck server(it runs in a container, quick enough to bring back up :)) my yes-process obviously dies on the host.
#### 16:26:53 DinMamma
 I need yes to survice a restart of my rundeck-server.
#### 16:28:23 DinMamma
 Or network issue, or anything in between,
#### 16:28:40 DinMamma
 Im going to kick off long running processes that are not allowed to fail due to such things.
#### 16:29:02 DinMamma
 Using cron right now to kick them off, but would be nice with a ceteralized place etc.
#### 16:37:09 Alex-SF
 hi DinMamma 
#### 16:37:18 DinMamma
 Hello
#### 16:37:55 Alex-SF
 so you want to execute a task on a remote node, kind of like a background task
#### 16:38:14 Alex-SF
 so i guess there's a couple of points to make there
#### 16:38:21 DinMamma
 Yes, exactly.
#### 16:38:35 Alex-SF
 #1 is that the ssh dropped connection could propagate a terminate signal. that of course you don't want
#### 16:38:51 Alex-SF
 because that will essentially interrupt your remote process
#### 16:39:31 Alex-SF
 so it's like you want to trigger a managed process on a remote node. I say managed in the sense of "watched over"
#### 16:40:07 DinMamma
 Yep.
#### 16:40:13 Alex-SF
 funny thing is in winrm the idea of a session is more persistent than it is with ssh 
#### 16:40:26 Alex-SF
 i.e., in winrm you create a session that you can reconnect to.
#### 16:40:56 DinMamma
 I could use screen ofc, but I would rather not want to use that.
#### 16:41:14 Alex-SF
 so, this probably sounds like overkill but i do know of cases where people run another rundeck (like it was that watching process). 
#### 16:41:35 Alex-SF
 so one rundeck calls another rundeck. the local rundeck manages the process
#### 16:41:39 DinMamma
 Ah yeah, just hit the api endpoints.
#### 16:41:41 DinMamma
 Thats quite nice.
#### 16:41:42 Alex-SF
 we should think of a lighter wait way
#### 16:42:15 Alex-SF
 but rundeck is small (50MB ). some users have asked about stripping rundeck down so it could be an agent with the same API set
#### 16:42:29 Alex-SF
 i kind of like that idea
#### 16:42:31 DinMamma
 That would be really cool. 
#### 16:43:03 DinMamma
 Especially if the agent kind of stores its jobs locally, so they would be executed even if there is a network outage or watherever is using the cron feature.
#### 16:43:06 Alex-SF
 it solves lots of problems too. for example, the rundeck server could crash or get portioned from the network. When it comes back it could reconnect to the other ones
#### 16:43:10 Alex-SF
 right
#### 16:43:26 Alex-SF
 kind of a federated model
#### 16:43:55 Alex-SF
 btw, i know of a couple users that are doing this kind of thing in windows environments because they don't want to use winrm
#### 16:44:17 Alex-SF
 so they put rundeck on each of the windows nodes and have a "master" rundeck call the api like a NodeExecutor
#### 16:46:17 simon_
 Blargh, battery died.
#### 16:46:23 simon_
 What was the last lines you wrote Alex-SF?
#### 16:46:24 Alex-SF
 darn that battery!
#### 16:46:53 Alex-SF
 oh about setting up rundeck like a remote agent in a windows environment because winrm couldn't be worked out
#### 16:47:10 simon_
 I dont know any Java im afraid, and I dont have time to learn. But if there were any specs for what an agent would have to provide to be able to speak to the rundeck-server I could write one in Python.
#### 16:47:35 Alex-SF
 you could write a node executor plugin in python
#### 16:47:45 simon_
 Because this would be really useful.
#### 16:47:50 Alex-SF
 let me find a link...
#### 16:48:17 Alex-SF
 firstly this is pretty cool to know about: http://vincent.behar.name/rundeck-api-java-client/jython.html
#### 16:48:47 simon_
 Oh, neato!
#### 16:48:57 Alex-SF
 and this http://rundeck.org/docs/manual/plugins.html#script-plugin
#### 16:49:09 Alex-SF
 yah these plugins can be written in script or java
#### 16:49:16 Alex-SF
 i write lots of plugins in bash :)
#### 16:50:23 Alex-SF
 let me know if you get stuck. we might want to do a online google hangout to teach this stuff if it's helpful
#### 16:51:03 simon_
 Ok, Ill have a read and see if I can figure something out.
#### 16:51:12 simon_
 In the meantime Ill just stick to cron then :)
#### 16:51:20 Alex-SF
 ok
#### 17:03:32 damonedw
 Rundeck community google hangout starting now: https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/110d0a9595f2e104b14ea3386df9f8258a3c7643
#### 17:10:35 simon_
 Hello
#### 17:10:44 simon_
 I dont have a mic in this computer.
#### 17:12:46 damonedw
 simon_: what training topic would you be interested in? (for online free training)
#### 17:13:28 simon_
 damonedw: mostly about the architecture of rundeck I guess, and it would be cool with like "hello world plugin" hangout.
#### 17:14:49 damonedw
 simon_: any particular thing about the arch? overview? how to scale?
#### 17:15:27 simon_
 Just a high level overwiew, it can be a bit daunting to dive into a big codebase without a high level overview of where things live and if there are any design decisions one should know of.
#### 17:17:06 simon_
 Btw, Ive written a chef-cookbook for rundeck which automagically add nodes from a node search if anyone is interested https://github.com/simonjohansson/chef-rundeck
#### 17:17:19 Alex-SF
 holy moly. ya that is good
#### 17:33:48 Kzim
 hello i just discovered rundeck but i have many windows machines is there a good integration ?
#### 17:34:21 Alex-SF
 hi kzim
#### 17:34:33 Alex-SF
 the key part is the winrm plugin to make it possible
#### 17:36:22 Kzim
 Alex-SF, okay i'll check that i' ve seen that it's one year old. i wanted to be sure that this is still fully functionnal :)
#### 17:36:40 Alex-SF
 yah, it's still active. 
#### 17:36:56 Alex-SF
 we recently made an update to have it use a newer underlying library
#### 17:40:33 Kzim
 great ! thx
#### 17:47:35 Kzim
 Alex-SF, i see that i can create form for job with like dropdown meny. can i pupulate this json from Chef for example ? 
#### 17:49:56 Alex-SF
 yes, but you'd have to write a little CGI wrapper 
#### 17:50:26 Alex-SF
 so essentially this CGI like wrapper would call the Chef search and return back the options JSON
#### 17:55:04 Kzim
 Alex-SF, i'm allowed to use what language to do that ? :)
#### 18:04:43 Alex-SF
 you could write a cgi in shell script
#### 18:04:59 Alex-SF
 but it does require something else to run the cgi. what scripting language do you like ?
#### 18:07:04 Kzim
 python, bash,ruby things like that 
#### 18:10:58 Alex-SF
 ok. so you could write a cgi script that uses one of those languages like that
#### 18:13:47 Kzim
 that' s great. so let me take a example and then i;ll leave you to install rundeck :)
#### 18:14:21 Alex-SF
 it would be nice for us to have a working example where you could just drop stuff into 
#### 18:15:00 Kzim
 can rundeck is good to orchestrate a mongodb cluster creation for example ? install 3 server wait so that they are up then configure the replicaset then pop a mongoS, then wait and create the cluster and the user and destroy the mongos process
#### 18:24:43 simon_
 Kzim: I would rather use Chef/Puppet for that.
#### 18:25:35 simon_
 That way you dont need to do anything really, just use the manifest/cookbook and it will figure everything out by itself.
#### 18:27:35 Kzim
 simon_, we use Chef but Chef has no orchestration
#### 18:28:01 simon_
 Ah, sorry, didnt see orchestartion there.
#### 18:28:59 Kzim
 it's a simple one but i'll have to know wwhen every node are up then when the replicat set is configured for example
#### 18:30:31 simon_
 Are you running mongo in the cloud(tm) or on physical hardware? I think RightScale and other similar companies tries to solve these issues.
#### 18:31:14 simon_
 Our mongo-setup is on physical machines and very static(we add nodes to the cluster when we need more space) so the chef-recipes has been good enough for us.
#### 18:33:36 simon_
 Alrighty, I need to go home. Se yall later
#### 18:40:04 Kzim
 physical
#### 19:05:11 Kzim
 Alex-SF, can i limit a user to a certain project or job ?
#### 19:06:18 Alex-SF
 Kzim: yes you can with an aclpolicy
#### 19:06:42 Alex-SF
 you can allow it on a per-user or per-usergroup basis
