---
layout: irclog
server: irc.freenode.net
channel: rundeck
---

#### 00:16:56 gschueler
 hi nDuff yes i'm back :)
#### 11:58:55 rundeckuser0
 I am creating an application which can automatically login into rundeck
#### 11:59:06 rundeckuser0
 can any one guide me how I can do that
#### 11:59:14 rundeckuser0
 using its API
#### 14:17:08 qwebirc953937
 team hello. any ideas on how to deal with framework.ssh.timeout when a node is turn off. 
#### 15:06:05 qwebirc953937
 team hello. any ideas on how to deal with framework.ssh.timeout when a node is turn off.
#### 17:48:28 nDuff
 gschueler: First, congrats!
#### 17:49:25 nDuff
 gschueler: Second -- have you had a chance to look at that issue in depth? My take was that a proper fix would require changing semantics currently asserted by the test suite (albeit not documented very clearly in any respect)
#### 17:49:56 nDuff
 ACTION wanders downstairs to lunch, but will be back shortly.
#### 18:18:06 gschueler
 nDuff: i haven't had a chance to dig into it
#### 18:45:30 nDuff
 gschueler: Is that something that's liable to happen in the reasonably forseeable future? I'm pretty substantially concerned about the potential effects -- ended up restricting all jobs at our site to only use parameters from a hardcoded list, but for folks for whom that isn't an option, shell injection is a pretty real concern.
#### 22:23:43 qhartman_
 If I'm pulling a list from an option model provider URL, is there a way to default to having all the items in the list checked by default?
#### 22:52:15 Alex-SF
 qhartman_: i don't think
#### 22:57:36 qhartman_
 yeah, I haven't been able to find anything
